README.md, before:

paypal
======

`paypal` is a Go package that allows you to access PayPal APIs, with optional Google AppEngine support, using the  ["PayPal NVP"](https://cms.paypal.com/us/cgi-bin/?cmd=_render-content&content_ID=developer/e_howto_api_nvp_NVPAPIOverview#id09C2F0G0C7U) format.

Included is a method for using the [Digital Goods for Express Checkout](https://cms.paypal.com/us/cgi-bin/?cmd=_render-content&content_ID=developer/e_howto_api_IntegratingExpressCheckoutDG) payment option.

This fork lets you choose to use [AppEngine's urlfetch package](https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/go/urlfetch/overview) to create the HTTP Client

Quick Start: Setting Up a PayPal Charge (Redirect)
---

####### Standard Go Usage
```go
import (
  "fmt"
  "github.com/crowdmob/paypal"
)

func paypalExpressCheckoutHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  // An example to setup paypal express checkout for digital goods
  currencyCode := "USD"
  isSandbox    := true
  returnURL    := "http://example.com/returnURL"
  cancelURL    := "http://example.com/cancelURL"
  
  // Create the paypal Client with default http client
  client := paypal.NewDefaultClient("Your_Username", "Your_Password", "Your_Signature", isSandbox)
  
  // Make a array of your digital-goods
  testGoods := []paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{
    Name: "Test Good", 
    Amount: 200.000,
    Quantity: 5,
  }}
  
  // Sum amounts and get the token!
  response, err := client.SetExpressCheckoutDigitalGoods(paypal.SumPayPalDigitalGoodAmounts(&testGoods), 
    currencyCode, 
    returnURL, 
    cancelURL, 
    testGoods,
  )
  
  if err != nil {
    // ... gracefully handle error
  } else { // redirect to paypal
    http.Redirect(w, r, response.CheckoutUrl(), 301)
  }
}
```

####### App Engine Usage
```go
import (
	"fmt"
	"github.com/crowdmob/paypal"
	"appengine"
	"appengine/urlfetch"
)

func paypalExpressCheckoutHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
	// An example to setup paypal express checkout for digital goods
	currencyCode := "USD"
	isSandbox    := true
	returnURL    := "http://example.com/returnURL"
	cancelURL    := "http://example.com/cancelURL"
	
	// Create the paypal Client with urlfetch
	client := paypal.NewClient("Your_Username", "Your_Password", "Your_Signature", urlfetch.Client(appengine.NewContext(r)), isSandbox)

  // Make a array of your digital-goods
  testGoods := []paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{
    Name: "Test Good", 
    Amount: 200.000,
    Quantity: 5,
  }}
  
  // Sum amounts and get the token!
  response, err := client.SetExpressCheckoutDigitalGoods(paypal.SumPayPalDigitalGoodAmounts(&testGoods), 
    currencyCode, 
    returnURL, 
    cancelURL, 
    testGoods,
  )
  
  if err != nil {
  // ... gracefully handle error
  } else { // redirect to paypal
    http.Redirect(w, r, response.CheckoutUrl(), 301)
  }
}
```

Quick Start: Completing a PayPal Charge
---
According to their documentation (see bottom of page), you'll have to call their `DoExpressCheckoutPayment` api to successfully charge a transaction.

In the Return URL, PayPal will append a token and PayerId to your return URL as parameters, like this: `token=XX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX&PayerID=XXXXXXXXXXXXX`.

Your controller for the Return URL typically will call the `DoExpressCheckoutSale` (or `DoExpressCheckoutPayment` for more control), as follows:

```go
client := paypal.NewDefaultClient("Your_Username", "Your_Password", "Your_Signature", isSandbox)
response, err := client.DoExpressCheckoutSale(r.FormValue("token"), r.FormValue("PayerID"), "USD", AMOUNT_OF_SALE)

if err != nil { // handle error in charging
  http.Redirect(w, r, MY_CHARGE_ERROR_URL, 301)
} else { // success!
  // ... handle successful charge
  http.Redirect(w, r, fmt.Sprintf("%s?receipt-id=%s", MY_RECEIPT_URL, response.Values["PAYMENTREQUEST_0_TRANSACTIONID"][0]), 301)
}
```


Running Tests
---
There's a test suite included.  To run it, simply run:

    go test paypal_test.go

You'll have to have set the following environment variables to run the tests:

    export PAYPAL_TEST_USERNAME=XXX
    export PAYPAL_TEST_PASSWORD=XXX
    export PAYPAL_TEST_SIGNATURE=XXX

Tests currently run in sandbox.


PayPal Documentation
---

PayPal documentation is scattered at best.  Here's the best link I've found that describes it: [How to Create One-Time Payments Using Express Checkout](https://developer.paypal.com/webapps/developer/docs/classic/express-checkout/ht_ec-singleItemPayment-curl-etc/ "How to Create One-Time Payments Using Express Checkout")

![PayPal NVP Express Checkout Flow](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/en_US/developer/docs/ec/sandboxEC.gif)

Commit message:

Warn users that this public library is not currently completed

README.md, after:

paypal
======

NOTE: This fork is currently under construction to utilize updates that PayPal has made, specifically Billing Agreements

`paypal` is a Go package that allows you to access PayPal APIs, with optional Google AppEngine support, using the  ["PayPal NVP"](https://cms.paypal.com/us/cgi-bin/?cmd=_render-content&content_ID=developer/e_howto_api_nvp_NVPAPIOverview#id09C2F0G0C7U) format.

Included is a method for using the [Digital Goods for Express Checkout](https://cms.paypal.com/us/cgi-bin/?cmd=_render-content&content_ID=developer/e_howto_api_IntegratingExpressCheckoutDG) payment option.

This fork lets you choose to use [AppEngine's urlfetch package](https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/go/urlfetch/overview) to create the HTTP Client

Quick Start: Setting Up a PayPal Charge (Redirect)
---

####### Standard Go Usage
```go
import (
  "fmt"
  "github.com/crowdmob/paypal"
)

func paypalExpressCheckoutHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  // An example to setup paypal express checkout for digital goods
  currencyCode := "USD"
  isSandbox    := true
  returnURL    := "http://example.com/returnURL"
  cancelURL    := "http://example.com/cancelURL"
  
  // Create the paypal Client with default http client
  client := paypal.NewDefaultClient("Your_Username", "Your_Password", "Your_Signature", isSandbox)
  
  // Make a array of your digital-goods
  testGoods := []paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{
    Name: "Test Good", 
    Amount: 200.000,
    Quantity: 5,
  }}
  
  // Sum amounts and get the token!
  response, err := client.SetExpressCheckoutDigitalGoods(paypal.SumPayPalDigitalGoodAmounts(&testGoods), 
    currencyCode, 
    returnURL, 
    cancelURL, 
    testGoods,
  )
  
  if err != nil {
    // ... gracefully handle error
  } else { // redirect to paypal
    http.Redirect(w, r, response.CheckoutUrl(), 301)
  }
}
```

####### App Engine Usage
```go
import (
	"fmt"
	"github.com/crowdmob/paypal"
	"appengine"
	"appengine/urlfetch"
)

func paypalExpressCheckoutHandler(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
	// An example to setup paypal express checkout for digital goods
	currencyCode := "USD"
	isSandbox    := true
	returnURL    := "http://example.com/returnURL"
	cancelURL    := "http://example.com/cancelURL"
	
	// Create the paypal Client with urlfetch
	client := paypal.NewClient("Your_Username", "Your_Password", "Your_Signature", urlfetch.Client(appengine.NewContext(r)), isSandbox)

  // Make a array of your digital-goods
  testGoods := []paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{paypal.PayPalDigitalGood{
    Name: "Test Good", 
    Amount: 200.000,
    Quantity: 5,
  }}
  
  // Sum amounts and get the token!
  response, err := client.SetExpressCheckoutDigitalGoods(paypal.SumPayPalDigitalGoodAmounts(&testGoods), 
    currencyCode, 
    returnURL, 
    cancelURL, 
    testGoods,
  )
  
  if err != nil {
  // ... gracefully handle error
  } else { // redirect to paypal
    http.Redirect(w, r, response.CheckoutUrl(), 301)
  }
}
```

Quick Start: Completing a PayPal Charge
---
According to their documentation (see bottom of page), you'll have to call their `DoExpressCheckoutPayment` api to successfully charge a transaction.

In the Return URL, PayPal will append a token and PayerId to your return URL as parameters, like this: `token=XX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX&PayerID=XXXXXXXXXXXXX`.

Your controller for the Return URL typically will call the `DoExpressCheckoutSale` (or `DoExpressCheckoutPayment` for more control), as follows:

```go
client := paypal.NewDefaultClient("Your_Username", "Your_Password", "Your_Signature", isSandbox)
response, err := client.DoExpressCheckoutSale(r.FormValue("token"), r.FormValue("PayerID"), "USD", AMOUNT_OF_SALE)

if err != nil { // handle error in charging
  http.Redirect(w, r, MY_CHARGE_ERROR_URL, 301)
} else { // success!
  // ... handle successful charge
  http.Redirect(w, r, fmt.Sprintf("%s?receipt-id=%s", MY_RECEIPT_URL, response.Values["PAYMENTREQUEST_0_TRANSACTIONID"][0]), 301)
}
```


Running Tests
---
There's a test suite included.  To run it, simply run:

    go test paypal_test.go

You'll have to have set the following environment variables to run the tests:

    export PAYPAL_TEST_USERNAME=XXX
    export PAYPAL_TEST_PASSWORD=XXX
    export PAYPAL_TEST_SIGNATURE=XXX

Tests currently run in sandbox.


PayPal Documentation
---

PayPal documentation is scattered at best.  Here's the best link I've found that describes it: [How to Create One-Time Payments Using Express Checkout](https://developer.paypal.com/webapps/developer/docs/classic/express-checkout/ht_ec-singleItemPayment-curl-etc/ "How to Create One-Time Payments Using Express Checkout")

![PayPal NVP Express Checkout Flow](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/en_US/developer/docs/ec/sandboxEC.gif)
